
Gherkin Acceptance Scenarios for LLM-Powered Code Reviewer & Debugger

User Story: Upload Code
Scenario: Valid upload
  Given I'm logged in as an instructor
  When I upload a .py file for the "Project 1" assignment
  Then the system should show a "Analysis in progress..." message

Scenario: Wrong file type
  Given I'm logged in as an instructor
  When I accidentally upload a .txt file
  Then the system should yell at me with an error: "Please upload a supported code file (.py, .java, .cpp)"

User Story: View Feedback
Scenario: See my feedback
  Given I'm a student and my instructor has approved my feedback
  When I go to my "My Feedback" page
  Then I should see my code covered in comments and a summary report

Scenario: Feedback is still pending
  Given I'm a student and I just submitted my code
  When I nervously check the page 5 minutes later
  Then I should see a message: "Feedback pending instructor review. Check back later."

User Story: Approve/Reject Feedback
Scenario: Instructor approves a comment
  Given I'm an instructor reviewing AI feedback
  When I click "Approve" on a helpful style suggestion
  Then that comment gets tagged as approved and is cleared for the student to see

Scenario: Instructor nukes a bad comment
  Given I'm an instructor and the AI generated a nonsense comment
  When I hit the "Reject" button
  Then that comment gets moved to the trash and won't be in the final report

User Story: Submission History
Scenario: Looking at my history
  Given I'm a student who has submitted Project 1 three times
  When I view my submission history
  Then I see a list with the dates and statuses of all three attempts

Scenario: First-time user
  Given I'm a new student who hasn't submitted anything
  When I check my history page
  Then I see a friendly message: "You haven't submitted any assignments yet!"

User Story: Plagiarism Check
Scenario: High similarity score
  Given two nearly identical code submissions are uploaded
  When the plagiarism check runs
  Then the system should flag both with a 95% similarity score and alert the instructor

Scenario: Original work
  Given a unique, original code file is uploaded
  When the plagiarism check runs
  Then the report should show a very low similarity score and no flags

User Story: Student Dashboard
Scenario: Dashboard with assignments
  Given I'm a student with two graded assignments and one pending
  When I log in
  Then my dashboard should show those three assignments with clear status icons

Scenario: Empty dashboard
  Given I'm a student in a new class
  When I log in for the first time
  Then my dashboard should be empty except for a "Welcome! No assignments yet." message

User Story: Export Reports
Scenario: Get a PDF
  Given I'm an instructor looking at a student's detailed report
  When I click "Export as PDF"
  Then my browser should download a nicely formatted PDF file of the report

Scenario: Export glitches
  Given I'm an instructor trying to export a report
  When the server times out
  Then I should see a clear error: "Export failed. Our bad! Please try again in a moment."



Deep Project Summary: LLM-Powered Code Reviewer & Debugger

This project aims to create a system where instructors can upload student programming assignments in common formats (.py, .java, .cpp), and the platform will leverage an LLM (Large Language Model) to analyze the submissions. The main goal is to give meaningful, context-aware feedback in a way that supports both students and instructors.

At its core, the system provides smart, in-line feedback. Instead of vague comments, issues are highlighted directly inside the student’s code with suggestions, warnings, or corrections. These are paired with a summary report that organizes issues by severity (critical, warnings, suggestions). Importantly, instructors have the final say. All AI feedback must be reviewed and either approved, edited, or rejected before students see it. This keeps the instructor in control, avoiding unfair or confusing feedback.

Students benefit from a clean dashboard where they can view their assignments, feedback, and history. Submission history helps them track progress across multiple attempts, making it easier to reflect and improve over time. A plagiarism detection feature ensures academic integrity by flagging suspiciously similar submissions. Additionally, instructors can export detailed reports in PDF or CSV format for records or departmental use.

From a non-functional perspective, the system prioritizes speed (feedback in under 10 seconds for typical programs), reliability (99.5% uptime), and strong security (AES-256 encryption, FERPA compliance). The system must also scale to support 200 concurrent students and remain easy to use, requiring no more than three clicks to reach key feedback.

Technically, the project uses React with TypeScript for the frontend, providing reusable UI components and type safety. The backend runs on Python with Django, chosen for its strong integration with machine learning libraries and built-in security features. Docker is used for containerization, and AWS ECS handles deployment and scaling. GitHub manages version control, Jira organizes tasks, and Slack is the main communication channel. Automated testing relies on Jest (frontend) and Pytest (backend), ensuring consistent quality.

The development process follows Scrum, with short sprints that allow quick testing of features like file upload, feedback generation, or plagiarism checks. This approach supports flexibility, especially since the effectiveness of LLM feedback is still uncertain and may require adjustments. Regular retrospectives and backlog updates ensure the team stays aligned and adapts as needed.

Overall, the project balances innovation with practicality. By combining AI-powered analysis with instructor oversight, it creates a fair and effective system for learning. Students gain actionable, understandable feedback, instructors save time while retaining authority, and the institution benefits from academic integrity safeguards and professional reporting tools.
